Add Hashicorp Vault Terraform demo (#76)
MaterializeInc/demos: integrations/terraform/hashicorp-vault/README.md

# Materialize Terraform Provider + HashiCorp Vault

> HashiCorp Vault is a powerful tool for securely accessing secrets. This demo will guide you through the process of setting up and using [Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/), as well as demonstrating how to interact with the Materialize Terraform provider using the `materialize_secret` resource with secrets stored in Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[HashiCorp Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io/) is a powerful tool for securely managing sensitive credentials. This demo guides you through combining the Materialize and Vault Terraform providers to access secrets stored in Vault in Materialize.
```

## Overview

![](https://github.com/MaterializeInc/demos/assets/21223421/edc48e99-77b3-4c47-8e86-472c51d45f70)

## Prerequisites

- Install [Vault](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/downloads)
- Install [Terraform](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/downloads) 1.0.3 or later
- [Materialize Cloud](https://cloud.materialize.com/) account.
- Follow the steps in the [README.md](../README.md) file to set up your AWS configuration and Materialize details.

## Setting up Vault

Before we can use Vault, we need to start a Vault server. For testing purposes, we'll run Vault in dev mode:

```bash
vault server -dev
```

This will start Vault in dev mode and output an Unseal Key and a Root Token.

Make sure to note the Root Token as we'll use it to authenticate with Vault.

## Interacting with Vault

Open a new terminal and export the `VAULT_ADDR`:

```bash

> export VAULT_ADDR='http://127.0.0.1:8200'

Reviewer 2: I found this a little confusing since `VAULT_ADDR` is not used anywhere within the Terraform setup. Should we assume they already know how to sue Vault and have a secret?

Reviewer: Maybe the guide should assume users have a Vault in place that they want to read secrets from? This could also make it easier to include examples for multiple external stores using different providers in the same "demo".

Author: If we decide to do that, I can go ahead and close this PR as it is mainly focused on HashiCorp vault and it would be easier to start from scratch and build a more agnostic guide,

Author: I've put together a list of some of the vaults that we might want to include besides HashiCorp Vault and also have official Terraform providers:

- AWS Secrets Manager: [Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/secretsmanager_secret)
- Azure Key Vault: [Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/key_vault_secret)
- Google Cloud Secret Manager: [Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/resources/secret_manager_secret_version)

Not sure if we want to include these, but they also have Terraform providers:
- 1Password: [Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/1password/onepassword/latest/docs)
- Akeyless Vault: [Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/akeyless-community/akeyless/latest)

It should be straightforward to build such a guide as it will essentially be just a reference to each specific provider docs and on the Materialize side, it is just a single secret resource.

```bash
vault login <Root-Token>
```

Once authenticated, you can begin to interact with Vault.

## Adding and Retrieving a Secret in Vault

To store a secret in Vault, we can use the `vault kv put` command.

```bash
vault kv put secret/materialize pgpass=some-secret-value
```

The vault `kv put` command creates a key-value secret at the path specified. In this case, the secret is stored at `secret/materialize`.

To retrieve a secret, you use the `vault kv get` command:

```bash
vault kv get secret/materialize
```

## Integrating Vault with Terraform:

Terraform has a Vault provider which you can use to retrieve secrets from Vault.

First, let's start by creating a file called `main.tf` and then in that file you will need to add the Vault provider and the Materialize provider:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    vault = {
      source = "hashicorp/vault"
      version = "~> 3.15"
    }
    materialize = {
      source = "MaterializeInc/materialize"
      version = "0.0.5"
    }
  }
}
```

You'll then have to initialize the Vault provider:

```hcl
provider "vault" {
  address = "http://localhost:8200"
  token = "<Root-Token>"
}
```

> Replace `<Root-Token>` with the actual Root Token of your Vault server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `<root-token>` with the root token of your Vault server.
```

> After that initialize the Materialize provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, initialize the Materialize provider:
```

```hcl

> provider "materialize" {

Reviewer 2: Should we standardize how we present initializing the provider? We recently changed the Registry documentation to[ look like this](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/MaterializeInc/materialize/latest/docs#example-provider-configuration):
```
provider "materialize" {
  host     = var.materialize_hostname # optionally use MZ_HOST env var
  username = var.materialize_username # optionally use MZ_USER env var
  password = var.materialize_password # optionally use MZ_PW env var
  port     = var.materialize_port     # optionally use MZ_PORT env var
  database = var.materialize_database # optionally use MZ_DATABASE env var
}
```
Though may that should be updated as well to include the non env var defaults for `port` and `database`

>   host     = local.materialize_host

Reviewer 2: For this and the other demo in this repo should we use `var` instead of `local` to be consistent with the provider and the modules?

  username = local.materialize_username
  password = local.materialize_password
  port     = 6875
  database = "materialize"
}
```

> You'll need to set the `local` variables for `materialize_host`, `materialize_username`, and `materialize_password`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the `local` variables for `materialize_host`, `materialize_username`, and `materialize_password` to use your Materialize credentials:
```

```hcl
locals {

>   # The Materialize Cloud details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   materialize_host     = "cloud.materialize.com"

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be the actual hostname for the account?

>   materialize_username = "<Materialize-Username>"
>   materialize_password = "<Materialize-Password>"
>   # The Vault root token
>   vault_token          = "<Root-Token>"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  materialize_username = "<Materialize-username>"
  materialize_password = "<Materialize-password>"
  # The Vault root token
  vault_token          = "<root-token>"
```

}
```

> Replace `<Materialize-Username>` and `<Materialize-Password>` with the actual username and password of your Materialize Cloud account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `<Materialize-username>` and `<Materialize-password>` with the username and password of your Materialize account.
```

> ## Retrieving a Secret from Vault

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Retrieving a secret from Vault
```

> Now you can use the `vault_generic_secret` data source to retrieve the secret from Vault:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To retrieve a secret from Vault, use the `vault_generic_secret` data source:
```

```hcl
data "vault_generic_secret" "materialize_password" {
  path = "secret/materialize"
}
```

> Finally, you can use the secret retrieved from Vault in your `materialize_secret` resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, use the secret retrieved from Vault in your `materialize_secret` resource:
```

```hcl
resource "materialize_secret" "example_secret" {
  name  = "pgpass"
  value = data.vault_generic_secret.materialize_password.data["pgpass"]
}
```

> ## Running the Terraform Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Running the Terraform script
```

> Now that you have the Terraform script ready, you can run the following commands to initialize and apply the script:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the Terraform script is ready, run the following commands to initialize and apply the script:
```

```bash
# Initialize the Terraform configuration:
terraform init

# Apply the Terraform configuration:
terraform apply
```

Output:

```bash
Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value: yes

materialize_secret.example_secret: Creating...
materialize_secret.example_secret: Creation complete after 3s [id=u111]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

Once the script has been applied, you can verify that the secret has been created in Materialize Cloud:

```sql
SHOW SECRETS;
```

> ## Using the Secret in Connections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the secret in connections
```

Once the secret has been created, you can use it in your `CREATE CONNECTION` statements. In this example, we'll create a connection to a Postgres instance using the secret we created using the `materialize_connection_postgres` resource:

```hcl

> # Create a Postgres Connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create a PostgreSQL Connection
```

resource "materialize_connection_postgres" "example_postgres_connection" {
  name = "example_postgres_connection"
  host = "instance.foo000.us-west-1.rds.amazonaws.com"
  port = 5432
  user {
    text = "pguser"
  }
  password {
    name          = materialize_secret.example_secret.name

>     database_name = "materialize"

Reviewer 2: You should be able to get the `database_name` and `schema_name` with references to the secret as well
```
    database_name = materialize_secret.example_secret.database_name
    schema_name   = materialize_secret.example_secret.schema_name
```

    schema_name   = "public"
  }
  database = "pgdatabase"
}
```

The `password` block references the secret we created earlier.

## Cleaning up

> To clean up the resources created by Terraform, you can run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To clean up the resources created by Terraform, run the following command:
```

```bash
terraform destroy
```

## Conclusion

> In this demo, you learned how to use the Materialize Terraform provider to create a secret in Materialize Cloud using a secret stored in HashiCorp Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this demo, you learned how to use the Materialize Terraform provider to use secrets stored in an external secret store like HashiCorp Vault in Materialize.
```

> In a production environment, you wouldn't run Vault locally in dev mode. Instead, a highly available, secure, and resilient Vault cluster would be deployed on your cloud instances, ensuring that secrets remain accessible and secure. Rather than using the root token for authentication, you'd employ more secure authentication methods, such as IAM roles for AWS or Kubernetes service accounts and all communication between Vault and its clients should be over a secure HTTPS connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This demo used Vault in development mode, which **should never be used in production environments**. Instead, follow the [HashiCorp documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/tutorials/getting-started/getting-started-deploy) to deploy a highly available, secure, and resilient Vault cluster on your cloud instances, ensuring that secrets remain accessible and secure. Rather than using the root token for authentication, you'd employ more secure authentication methods, such as IAM roles for AWS or Kubernetes service accounts, and all communication between Vault and its clients should be over a secure HTTPS connection.
```

Reviewer: We should add the "never, ever use dev mode in production" disclaimer to the step where it is used, just to be sure!

> In a production environment, you wouldn't run Vault locally in dev mode. Instead, a highly available, secure, and resilient Vault cluster would be deployed on your cloud instances, ensuring that secrets remain accessible and secure. Rather than using the root token for authentication, you'd employ more secure authentication methods, such as IAM roles for AWS or Kubernetes service accounts and all communication between Vault and its clients should be over a secure HTTPS connection.

Reviewer 2: Also add some reminder that their secret is now being stored in two locations so if they ever change the secret value in Vault they would need to rerun the Terraform so the Materialize Secret resource can update.

For the complete Terraform script, see the [`main.tf`](./main.tf) file.

> ## Useful Links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Useful links
```
